An orchestra is a group of musicians who play together on various instruments. Sometimes it performs alone ,at other times it plays along with a group of singers. Orchestras give concerts and play for ballets or operas. They also provide background music for movies and TV shows.

When we speak of orchestras we usually mean symphony orchestras. They have many instruments and play mostly classical music which is performed in concerts.
Some symphony orchestras have only professional musicians. The most famous are in the larger cities of the world. Among them are the Berlin Philharmonic, the Vienna Philharmonic, the New York Philharmonic, the Boston and London Symphony.

Orchestral music is written in the form of a score, which shows the notes that are played by each instrument. Every musician only sees the notes that he or she plays. The conductor stands in front of the orchestra and directs the musicians.
An orchestra can have up to 20 kinds of different instruments. Large symphony orchestras can have a hundred musicians composing a team. Smaller ones like chamber orchestras have between 5 and 40 players. They originally were small enough to play in a chamber or hall.

-------------------------------------------------------

Football, also called soccer, is probably the world's most popular team sport. It is played by over 150 million men and women of all ages in more than 200 countries.
 Although nobody really knows when people started to play football, historians think that some form of the game was played in ancient cultures like China, Egypt or Rome.

Modern football, however, started in England. At the end of the 17th century it was played by young people from rich families and between school teams. In 1863 the Football Association was founded in England and the first sets of rules were made. By the end of the 19th century the game is showed to the rest of the world.

In 1904 the International Association of Football (FIFA) was formed. It has become the world's most important football organization. Today, all countries have national leagues in which teams play against each other for the national title. In Europe, the best teams compete in a tournament called the Champions League showing their abilities.
 Football is played on a rectangular field that is about 90 to 120 metres long and 45 to 90 metres wide. A goal (7.3 metres wide and 2.4 metres high) is at the end of the field. The lines at the sides of the field are called touchlines; those at the end of the field are called goal lines.

The penalty area is about 40 metres wide and extends 16 metres in front of the goal.

Football is played with a round leather ball that weighs about 450 grams.
A football team consists of 10 field players and a goalkeeper. He is the only one who can touch the ball with his hands. It is his job to keep the ball from getting into his goal.

